(KONOHAMARU)
Excuse me, sir...
Hm. Oh what?
Where's Lord Seventh?
Hm? Oh, he's over with
the Feudal Lord today.
Thought I'd make
my way through
as much of this work
as possible.
Otherwise, it just piles up,
ya know?
The work never seems
to end does it?
(SHIKAMARU)
Oh, yeah...
I just came by to drop off
the report on
our last mission.
Why don't you put it
in the box over there?
Sure thing!
Oh, is this‐‐?
Yeah. That's the outline
for the next Chunin Exams.
It's already
this far along, huh?
It's our responsibility
because we're in charge
of the test this time.
Every village is sending
their VIPs,
so there's a mountain
of prep work to do.
Seems like things are
just gonna get busier!
It's busy already!
I'll contact you
as soon as the applications
are printed out.
In the meantime...
you can think about what you
want to do with your genin.
I will.
The Chunin Exams, huh?
(SHINO) The upcoming
Chunin Exams
will be a huge event.
There'll be many visitors
coming to our village.
What a great way to
establish friendly relations!
But it makes the preparations
much more stressful...
and security for the event
is going to be an ordeal.
I'm certainly not
looking forward to it.
Now don't say that.
The test is a big deal.
The future of your genin
will be on the line.
Well, of course,
you're right.
Passing the Chunin Exam
is the only way to rise
to the level of team captain.
It also means you bear
the responsibility
for unsuccessful missions
and your subordinates'
injuries or deaths.
Yes.
We need to know they meet
all of the qualifications,
so we can rest assured
they're up to the job.
Well, that said,
Shino Sensei himself
taught this year's
slate of rookies
with some of the most
problematic students
we've had in years.
[panicking]
(KONOHAMARU)
Boruto, in particular...
has been getting into trouble
since the very day of
the entrance ceremony.
[panicking]
(KONOHAMARU)
I'll never forget it!
He rammed a Thunder Train
into the Great Stone Faces.
Cho‐Cho Akimichi.
(CHO‐CHO)
Here.
Boruto Uzumaki.
Boruto Uzumaki!
Are you here?
(SHINO)
The minutes ticked by,
and still,
he wasn't showing up.
Just when people
were starting to talk,
something unbelievable
happened.
[ohh's and ahh's]
[sigh of relief]
We made it.
Boruto Uzumaki has arrived
on the scene, ya know!
B‐Boruto...
(MOEGI)
[chuckle]
Now that was
a flashy entrance!
(UDON) It's nothing
to laugh about, Moegi!
I was so appalled...
I was certain my heart
would stop!
(KONOHAMARU)
That stunt of his
was the worst incident in
the history of the Academy.
If getting into mischief
is the sign of a good Hokage,
Boruto will easily
surpass Lord Seventh!
(MOEGI) That's hardly
something to brag about.
Now that you brought it up,
who ended up footing the bill
for all of those repairs?
(SHINO)
There were no issues.
The Kaminarimon Company
paid for everything.
(KONOHAMARU)
It was never publicized,
but that whole thing happened
because Denki was rebelling
against his father.
His father had forced him
into the Academy's
ninjutsu program...
and Denki just didn't
want to be there.
(MOEGI)
If he was so set against it,
why did he decide to
continue on in the academy?
(KONOHAMARU)
I'm not sure exactly.
But once he met Boruto,
he decided he did want to
become a ninja.
You mean Denki
from my team?
I didn't know that happened.
How could you not
know about it?!
Denki wasn't the only one.
Iwabe got in trouble, too.
They both got in trouble
with Boruto.
Huh, really?
I don't wanna be
your little friend,
Hokage's boy.
[grunt]
(KONOHAMARU)
Iwabe was really frustrated.
He had the physical skills,
but his grades were
so low back then
that he kept having to repeat.
But if I have to,
I'll take you on!
[grunts]
(UDON) I had heard that
he had a temper
during his years
at the Academy.
But actually taking part
in a duel...!
There was nothing about
that in any of his files.
(SHINO) We try not to include
too many negative details
in a student's record.
Because...
(UDON)
Uh, of course,
I understand why you would
want to do that!
(KONOHAMARU)
[chuckle]
Well, you rarely went to
observe the students
while they were training
at the Academy, Udon.
(UDON) I‐I was busy and
had a lot of things to do!
And sometimes, it's better
to not have any prior contact
or information that might
cloud your judgment.
Besides, we've had
no problems with Iwabe
of any kind since then.
(SHINO) Well, that is because
of his perseverance.
After all...
he was willing to accept
Denki's help
in order to get through
the subjects he was weak in.
I'm not riding on
the Hokage's coattails!
(KONOHAMARU)
By the way...
It was Boruto
who won that duel...
Yeah!
(MOEGI) That's really
nothing to brag about!
Because the truth is,
whenever there's an incident,
you will always find
Boruto Uzumaki
at the center of it!
I can't deny that.
Boruto is just like
Lord Seventh in that way.
He has the same knack for
bringing people together.
That's a polite way
of putting it.
(UDON)
Now that you mention it...
When the school building
got destroyed...
he was the catalyst
for that, too.
(SHINO)
That's right.
Uh...
[gasp]
What's the matter, Shino?
Uh...
Oh, yes...
(BORUTO)
Hey! Come on!
Drop that bun!
Sorry!
You snooze, you lose.
(SHINO)
That time...
The problem started with
Boruto and Sarada
arguing over yakisoba buns.
I figured we would turn
their confrontation
into a ninjutsu battle
at the new school
to help them understand
the different strengths
and weaknesses everyone has!
All right!
Ready...
Begin!
[grunts and
heavy breathing]
(UDON)
That took some resolve.
But everything
turned out fine, right?
(MOEGI)
Of course, it wasn't fine
or it wouldn't have
turned out like that!
(UDON)
Oh. I see...
(KONOHAMARU) Shino,
didn't you have paper bombs
planted throughout
the building?
(UDON)
Wait, what?!
Why would you do that?!
(SHINO)
Traps were set
in order to make it
feel like a genuine battle.
In hindsight,
I regret that
they may have been a bit
too powerful.
(MOEGI)
Wasn't that part of the reason
that the building
was destroyed?
(KONOHAMARU)
Regardless...
the training was
still a success.
Even though they were new
at the Academy,
everyone worked hard.
They used the ninjutsu
their parents taught them...
as well as jutsu
and taijutsu skills
they had just learned.
And then...
The girls got the upper hand
at first
and backed the boys
into a corner.
It was do‐or‐die,
so Boruto's Shadow Clones
used their taijutsu
to get on the roof.
However, the girls' team
managed to get to the roof
only seconds after them.
[gasp]
And then what happened?!
Then this happened!
Boruto was forced to
take desperate measures!
Summoning Jutsu!
(UDON)
A Summoning?!
He wasn't even a genin.
Yet he used such
a high‐level jutsu?
(SHINO)
In class,
I had gone over
the basics of Summoning.
I didn't teach them
exactly how to use it.
(UDON) So does that mean
he failed then?
(KONOHAMARU)
That's the thing.
Something terrible
was indeed summoned...
(MOEGI) Huh?
Don't tell me it was‐‐!
(KONOHAMARU)
Yup, you guessed it.
It was Nue.
Still, I don't believe
Boruto was successful
with his summoning.
It's more like his chakra
went haywire
and some of it flowed
into the outside world.
Just a coincidence really.
I didn't even understand
what it was at the time.
‐ [hiss]
‐ Ahhh!
Rasengan!
(MOEGI)
Oh, please,
I don't care about
what you did that day!
Because the school
still got leveled.
So then...
Are you saying
that's the first time
Nue ever appeared?
Well, no one told me that!
(KONOHAMARU)
Yeah.
We didn't want to panic
anyone, so we kept it quiet.
But once Sai knew about it,
he started
an immediate investigation.
Nu...e...
(KONOHAMARU)
Danzo's dark legacy...
Nue.
(MOEGI) I couldn't believe
such a thing still existed.
It sent shivers down my spine
when I heard about it.
(KONOHAMARU) Yeah...
The monster was created out of
the Foundation's hatred‐‐
Danzo's hatred.
It crossed through time
to be resurrected.
And then...
it tried to destroy
the village.
(MOEGI) Originally,
it was a living bomb...
developed specifically
to protect the Hidden Leaf.
How ironic that it would
attack the village instead.
(KONOHAMARU) We have to
thank Lord Sixth,
Sai and the Barrier Team
for their efforts.
Because of them,
the worst‐case scenario
was averted.
But it was still a close call.
(UDON)
And to think
the daughter
of Tanuki Shigaraki...
Sumire Kakei brought it
into the village.
She blended in with
the other students and‐‐
(SHINO)
She's not to blame...
[sniff]
Hm?
Ah!
(SHINO) She was
a victim of circumstance,
molded by the environment
she grew up in.
There is nothing wrong
with her character.
As her teacher,
I know that better
than anyone.
Uh! I apologize.
I didn't mean to single
her out for criticism.
I was out of line
to insinuate she acted
from personal malice.
Udon knows that
it wasn't her fault.
All of us know what
she's gone through.
‐ Mhm!
[inhale and exhale]
[gasp]
[deep breath]
I'm back!
Hi, everybody.
(KONOHAMARU) Boruto and
the others aren't affected
by old prejudices and have
accepted Sumire completely.
Having them as friends
has been her salvation.
So there's no need to worry
about her anymore.
[chuckle]
[quivering breath]
(UDON) So everything's back
to the way it was.
But ever since
that happened...
Poor Shino's had to cut back,
and now, he can only afford
instant noodles for lunch.
Huh? You're kidding!
[chuckle]
You're too gullible, Moegi!
[sigh]
You got me.
‐ Don't scare me like that!
‐ [chuckles]
That event was unimportant.
‐ Huh?
‐ For real?!
The incident united them.
It raised morale
of the students.
They accepted each other.
They became better friends.
And they began to
work more diligently.
Shadow Paralysis Jutsu!
(SHINO) Shikadai Nara...
the heir to the Nara Clan.
He uses the jutsu passed down
from his father
and has a sharp intellect.
(MOEGI) In the past,
he'd shown a lack of ambition.
But lately, it seems
something's happened to him
that really changed
his demeanor.
Ninja Art:
Super Beast Scroll!
(SHINO)
Inojin Yamanaka.
He's mastered
the Super Beast Scroll jutsu
perfected by Sai.
(MOEGI) But like Sai,
he can be very sarcastic,
which could earn him
some enemies.
It would be great
if he could tone that down.
Partial Expansion Jutsu!
(SHINO)
Cho‐Cho Akimichi.
She's already mastered
the Akimichi Clan's
Expansion Jutsu.
(MOEGI) I believe
her personal motto is
"Life can't be bound
by calories!"
I'll admit I kind of
envy her fearlessness!
The Ino‐Shika‐Cho trio...
For this generation.
Quite impressive!
A group of subordinates
you can be proud of.
The members of my team
work hard as well.
Earth Style: Mud Wall!
(SHINO)
Iwabe Yuino.
It took some time,
but he's starting to show
the true scope
of his potential.
(MOEGI)
Repeating paid off.
Having to study the same thing
over and over again
gave him a very solid
foundation in jutsu.
(KONOHAMARU) It's admirable
that he stayed so tenacious
despite having to be
a repeat repeater.
(UDON) [sniff] Could you
please stop talking about
repeating and repeaters?!
Leaf Hurricane!
(SHINO)
Metal Lee.
He is proficient in taijutsu,
works very hard
and gets excellent grades.
(UDON) But in regard
to his mental toughness,
he has a long way to go.
[grunt]
(SHINO)
Denki Kaminarimon...
I think he has shown
the most dramatic growth
among all the genin.
But I predict
his fine intellect
will be his main asset
in the future.
(MOEGI) His other two team
members act without thinking.
He'll be like
the command center
that keeps them under control.
(UDON)
Well, yeah...
Though you could put it
more kindly.
(MOEGI) But Iwabe might still
be repeating again and again
if it weren't for this kid,
right?
(SHINO)
Can't deny that.
(UDON) The two of you
are really harsh!
And finally,
there's Konohamaru's team
of troublemakers.
Eh...!
They're not troublemakers,
they're just misunderstood!
(SHINO)
First, we have Mitsuki.
He definitely has real skills.
He's already mastered
countless types of jutsu.
Wind Style: Breakthrough!
Snake Lightning!
(KONOHAMARU) However, he is
a child of many mysteries.
Even I still don't know
a whole lot about him
or his past.
(SHINO) [gasp] Oh what?
You don't know...?
(KONOHAMARU) Huh? Know what?
(MOEGI)
I don't know either!
(SHINO) I see...
Then let's move on.
(KONOHAMARU)
Hey, hold on there!
(SHINO)
Sarada Uchiha.
I don't think so!
Chaaa‐‐‐!
(SHINO) She's Sasuke
and Sakura's daughter.
So naturally,
she excels at everything.
(KONOHAMARU)
She awakened her Sharingan
quite some time ago.
Plus, she's inherited
her mother's great strength.
She still needs to build up
her stamina,
but her future is
full of promise.
Wind Style: Gale Palm!
[grunt]
Take this!
Lethal...
Boruto...
Stream!
(SHINO) And finally...
Boruto Uzumaki.
He has a lot of issues.
However, in terms of ninjutsu,
taijutsu and intellect...
he has demonstrated skills
only a prodigy could possess.
During the field trip...
he stuck his nose into
a sensitive issue
for the Land of Water
and then settled it.
Even what happened with Nue...
Sumire resolved
that situation
only after Boruto stepped in.
(KONOHAMARU) No matter
what else you think about him,
his abilities are no joke!
I see. So obviously
So obviously, he'll be taking
the Chunin Exams. Right?
[gasps]
(MOEGI)
Konohamaru?
You're not gonna let him
take the Chunin Exams?!
I haven't made
my final decision yet.
But I'm on the fence about it.
What do you think
I should do?
I think you should
let him take it, of course!
[sniff]
Me too.
If the students want to
take the exam,
I think they should do it.
[hiccup]
So what's making you hesitate?
[sigh]
This year's rookies
are basically all prodigies.
Especially Boruto.
He doesn't want people
to think of him
only as the son
of the great Hokage.
So he tries to show up
his father all the time.
If any other kid
acted like that,
you'd expect him
to fail miserably.
But he has this unusual knack
of overcoming every setback
and obstacle in his way.
(SHINO)
That's certainly true.
Even during the Genin Exam...
when he was backed
into a corner by Lord Sixth,
he figured out a solution.
(KONOHAMARU)
When he went to file an appeal
to change to another team.
He outwitted Mirai,
a higher ranked chunin!
And during their very
first mission,
he and his team members
brought down their enemy,
even though he was
a powerful Rogue Ninja.
(MOEGI)
That's amazing!
So what's the problem
with him then?
Your time is up!
Cha‐‐!
But in each case,
he was lucky
to come out ahead!
To become more powerful,
it's essential for shinobi
to face strength
that totally outmatches
their own.
They really haven't
been challenged.
They're weak.
Hm.
I can't argue with that.
C'mon.
That's all the more reason
they need to take
the Chunin Exams!
And if they can't
cut it there,
then maybe they'll realize
how naive they are.
No way!
The exam could crush them.
They might never
fully recover.
Huh?!
That's what
you're worried about?!
If that's all it takes
to crush them...
then go ahead
and crush 'em!
Hey! There you are!
I just can't do it!
Whoops.
I guess I came
at exactly the wrong time.
Actually, Konohamaru needs
help with a dilemma, Hanabi!
Ah...
[gulping and big breath]
I totally get what you're
going through, Konohamaru!
Oh yeah! You get what
I'm getting at, Hanabi?
How in the world did
we end up like this?
Oh I get you all right!
Just the mere thought of
something happening to Boruto
fills me with worry
and unrelenting dread!
Because,
that Boruto's such
a good natured, honest kid.
(HANABI) Whenever
we see each other,
he calls me "Big Sis."
And it's just
the sweetest thing ever!
[gulps]
That reminds me of
something else about him!
(KONOHAMARU)
It makes me so happy
when he calls me
"Big Bro Konohamaru."
I'm sorry,
Big Brother Konohamaru.
And another thing!
Big Bro Naruto has
entrusted Boruto to my care
and he's become
my precious kid brother!
Oh, wise Konohamaru!
I'm touched
by your strong emotions.
You obviously care
about Boruto so much.
[giggles]
This is stupid.
The only reason
you don't want to
let him take the Chunin Exam
is because
you're overprotective.
Fine.
Call me overprotective!
Yeah, That's right!
Aren't you gonna
say anything, Udon?!
[snores]
Come on! Aren't you gonna
back me up, Shino?!
Well, I suggest discussing
this when everyone's sober.
You're on our side,
right, Shino?
Come on.
Here, have a little a drink.
No, thanks.
I don't drink alcohol.
Aren't you concerned
about Boruto's well‐being?
Sure.
It's not that‐‐
‐ Then have a drink with us!
‐ [grunts]
[grunts]
I'm so sorry.
[gasps] Is everything
all right, Shino Sensei?!
Hey! Why do you ask?
Uh, isn't the reason
Shino Sensei
doesn't drink because...
Yeah.
It's 'cause he can't control
the insects inside of him.
[hiccup]
Hm? What was‐‐?
[screams]
Sensei, get ahold of‐‐
(NARUTO)
Hello, Hokage's office.
Yeah, I just got back.
What?! You mean Shino's
insects are outta control?!
What the heck is going on?
I never even got
to sleep last night.
Uh.
(NARUTO)
What do you mean he's been
discussing the Chunin Exams?
Since this afternoon?!
[sighs]
(NARUTO)
Ugh, it doesn't matter!
I'm heading out there
right now!
(BORUTO) Hmph. It was all
just like I thought.
That stupid old man!
Of course, it's not like
I had my hopes up
that he'd actually be here,
anyway.
(SARADA) There must have been
an emergency.
I mean, he is the Hokage.
(BORUTO) Sure.
I guess it was so important
that Lord Hokage couldn't help
but blow off my birthday.
(SARADA) Boruto...
(BORUTO) I honestly don't care
if it's for me, but...
(SARADA) Next time on Boruto:
Naruto Next Generations:
"Boruto's Birthday!"
(BORUTO) You'd better come
home for Himawari's birthday!